TRUST VERIFICATION OF A COMPUTING PLATFORM USING A PERIPHERAL DEVICE ...

Abstract
Verification of trustworthiness of a computing platform is provided. The trustworthiness of the computing platform is dynamically assessed to determine whether a root of trust exists on the computing platform. Responsive to determining existence of the root of trust, data is unsealed from a sealed storage facility. The sealed storage facility is unsealed responsive to a root of trust being determined to exist on the computing platform. The data can be used to attest to the trustworthiness of the computing platform to other device on a network.

Inventors:	QUINN; Rian; (Rome, NY) ; TORREY; Jacob; (Ava, NY)
Assignee:	ASSURED INFORMATION SECURITY, INC.
Rome
NY

Serial No.:	435015
Series Code:	13
Filed:	March 30, 2012
Current U.S. Class:	726/26
Class at Publication:	726/26
International Class:	G06F 21/24 20060101 G06F021/24
Claims


1. A system for facilitating verification of trustworthiness of a computing platform, the system comprising: a peripheral device configured to couple to the computing platform, the peripheral device comprising: a memory; and a processor in communications with the memory, wherein the peripheral device is configured to facilitate performing a method comprising: dynamically assessing trustworthiness of the computing platform, the dynamically assessing comprising determining whether a root of trust exists on the computing platform, the root of trust comprising a trusted execution environment; and responsive to determining existence of the root of trust on the computing platform, automatically unsealing data from a sealed storage facility of the peripheral device, the sealed storage facility being unsealed responsive to a root of trust being determined by the peripheral device to exist on the computing platform. 

2. The system of claim 1, wherein the peripheral device further comprises a timer, and wherein the dynamically assessing trustworthiness of the computing platform comprises: performing a dynamic root of trust measurement of software of the computing platform, the performing the dynamic root of trust measurement comprising: providing a challenge to the computing platform for execution by the computing platform; starting the timer; responsive to receiving a challenge response from the computing platform, determining, based on a value of the timer, an amount of time for the computing platform to respond with the challenge response; comparing the received challenge response with an expected challenge response to determine whether the received challenge response matches the expected challenge response; and responsive to both (i) the determined amount of time for the computing platform to respond being less than a maximum allowed amount of time, and (ii) the received challenge response matching the expected challenge response, establishing that the root of trust exists on the computing platform. 

3. The system of claim 2, wherein the challenge response comprises a checksum generated by the computing environment based, at least partially, on the software being measured via the dynamic root of trust measurement, and wherein a modification to the software results in an invalid checksum being received from the computing platform. 

4. The system of claim 2, wherein the dynamic root of trust measurement assesses integrity of the software prior to an execution of the software on the computing platform, and wherein the software is at least one of a software application, firmware, a virtual machine, a hypervisor, an operating system, or a basic input/output system. 

5. The system of claim 1, wherein the sealed storage facility comprises one or more memory regions of the memory, wherein the data is stored in the one or more memory regions, and wherein unsealing the data comprises allowing access to the data from the one or more memory regions responsive to the root of trust being determined to exist. 

6. The system of claim 5, wherein the data comprises attestation data for attesting the trustworthiness of the computing platform or one or more components of the computing platform to at least one of the computing platform or a separate device in communication with the peripheral device. 
