TIRE SUPPORT STAND ...

Abstract
A tire support stand includes a connecting arm and a telescopic arm, both connected to a securing bracket. The telescopic arm is pivotally connected to the securing bracket, while the connecting arm is firmly affixed to the securing bracket. The telescopic arm includes a sleeve member and an extendable arm which extends in and out of the sleeve member. The tire support stand has two configurations: (1) an upright configuration in which the connecting arm is mounted in a tripod; and (2) an L-shaped configuration in which the connecting arm is mounted to a trailer hitch receiver. In the upright configuration, a spindle platform is mounted on top of the connecting arm for receiving a tire. In the L-shaped configuration, the telescopic arm is rotated to a position perpendicular to the connecting arm and the spindle platform is mounted on top of the telescopic arm for receiving a tire.

Inventors:	Orr; Joseph C.; (Rexburg, ID)
Serial No.:	439852
Series Code:	13
Filed:	April 5, 2012
Current U.S. Class:	157/14; 248/125.8
Class at Publication:	157/14; 248/125.8
International Class:	F16M 11/04 20060101 F16M011/04; B60B 30/00 20060101 B60B030/00
Claims


1. A tire support stand, comprising: a) a connecting arm; b) a telescopic arm, the telescopic arm comprising: (1) a sleeve member; and (2) an extendable arm, wherein the extendable arm extends in and out of the sleeve member; c) a securing bracket; d) a spindle platform, the spindle platform comprising: (1) a base; (2) a platform; and (3) a central rod extending from the platform. e) a plurality of securing pins; and f) a tripod. 

2. The tire support stand according to claim 1, wherein the securing bracket defines a sleeve having a floor, and front and rear walls, 

3. The tire support stand according to claim 2, wherein the securing bracket includes two top opposite side through-bores, one on each opposite wall of the securing bracket, and two bottom opposite side through-bores, one on each opposite wall of the securing bracket, wherein the top and bottom through-bores are aligned and dimensioned to receive a securing pin. 

4. The tire support stand according to claim 3, wherein the connecting arm has front, rear, top and bottom walls, wherein the connecting arm has first and second opposite ends, wherein the first opposite end is open, wherein each opposite end has two through-holes on opposite front and rear walls of the connecting arm, wherein the first opposite end is inside the bracket sleeve, attached to the floor of the bracket, such that the first opposite end though-holes align with the bottom opposite side through-bores of the securing bracket, wherein the second opposite end of the connecting arm is dimensioned to fit in a vehicle trailer hitch receiver. 

5. The tire support stand according to claim 4, wherein the sleeve member comprises front, rear, top and bottom walls, wherein the sleeve member has first and second opposite ends, wherein each opposite end has two opposite aligned through-holes, one on each opposite front and rear wall of the sleeve member, wherein the first opposite end of the sleeve member is inside the bracket and attached to the top of the bracket such that the first opposite end through-holes align with the top opposite side threaded bores of the securing bracket, 

6. The tire support stand according to claim 5, wherein a securing pin inserted through the aligned opposite side bores and through-holes pivotally connects the sleeve member to the securing bracket, wherein the second opposite end of the sleeve member has a through-bore dimensioned to receive a securing pin; 

7. The tire support stand according to claim 6, wherein the extendable arm has front, rear, top and bottom walls, wherein the extendable arm is dimensioned to fit inside the sleeve member of the telescopic arm. 
